Add SVCB to the query algorithm (#8)
tfpauly/draft-happy-eyeballs-v3: draft-happy-eyeballs-v3.md

The algorithm for acting upon received answers depends on whether the
client sent out queries for SVCB RRs.

If the client did not request SVCB RRs:

- If a positive AAAA response (a response containing at least one
  valid AAAA RR) is received first, the first IPv6 connection
  attempt is immediately started.
- If a positive A response is received first (which might be due
  to reordering), the client SHOULD wait a short time for the
  AAAA response to ensure that preference is given to IPv6, since
  it is common for the AAAA response to follow the A response by
  a few milliseconds. This delay is referred to as
  the "Resolution Delay". If a negative AAAA response (no error, no
  data) is received within the Resolution Delay period or the AAAA
  response has not been received by the end of the Resolution Delay
  period, the client SHOULD proceed to sorting addresses (see
  {{sorting}}) and staggered connection attempts (see {{connections}}) using
  any IPv4 addresses received so far.

If the client did request SVCB RRs:

- If the client receives any positive response back (containing a valid
  AAAA, A, or SVCB RR), it starts the Resolution Delay timer, which

>   is run until both the AAAA and SVCB responses are received.

Author: ```suggestion
  is run until both the AAAA and SVCB responses are received,
  or a SVCB response is received that also includes at least one
  address in the `ipv6hint` parameter.
```

one another as possible, with the AAAA query made first and
immediately followed by the A query.

Additionally, if the client also wants to receive SVCB / HTTPS
resource records (RRs) {{!SVCB=I-D.ietf-dnsop-svcb-https}}, it
SHOULD issue the SVCB query immediately before the AAAA and A
queries (prioritizing the SVCB query since it can also include
address hints). If the client has only one of IPv4 or IPv6

> connectivity, it still issues the SVCB query in prior to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connectivity, it still issues the SVCB query prior to
```

whichever AAAA or A query is appropriate. Note that upon
receiving an SVCB answer, the client might need to issue futher

> AAAA and/or A queries to resolve the service name included in

Reviewer 2: Thank you for the clarification.

the RR.

Implementations SHOULD NOT wait for all answers to
return before attempting connection establishment. If one query
fails to return or takes significantly longer to return, waiting for
the other answers can significantly delay the connection
establishment of the first one. Therefore, the client SHOULD treat
DNS resolution as asynchronous. Note that if the platform does not
offer an asynchronous DNS API, this behavior can be simulated by

> making separate synchronous queries on different threads, one per
> query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
making separate synchronous queries, each on a different thread.
```
Using "query" twice was a bit confusing.

> The algorithm for acting upon received answers depends on if the
> client send out queries for SVCB RRs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The algorithm for acting upon received answers depends on whether the
client sent out queries for SVCB RRs.
```

If the client did not request SVCB RRs:

- If a positive AAAA response (a response containing at least one
  valid AAAA RR) is received first, the first IPv6 connection
  attempt is immediately started.
- If a positive A response is received first (which might be due
  to reordering), the client SHOULD wait a short time for the
  AAAA response to ensure that preference is given to IPv6, since
  it is common for the AAAA response to follow the A response by
  a few milliseconds. This delay is referred to as
  the "Resolution Delay". If a negative AAAA response (no error, no
  data) is received within the Resolution Delay period or the AAAA
  response has not been received by the end of the Resolution Delay
  period, the client SHOULD proceed to sorting addresses (see
  {{sorting}}) and staggered connection attempts (see {{connections}}) using
  any IPv4 addresses received so far.

If the client did request SVCB RRs:

- If the client receives any positive response back (containing a valid

>   AAAA, A, or SVCB RR), it starts the Resolution Delay timer, which

Reviewer 3: What if the client received an HTTPS RR with a valid v6 address in the ipv6hint? We should be able to start the connection attempt immediately, right?

Author: Yes, that's a good point. I'll need to add that nuance — we indeed do that in our code.

Author: Added

>   it lets run until both the AAAA and SVCB responses are received.

Reviewer 2: I just noticed that [section 5.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-dnsop-svcb-https-12#section-5.1) of the SVCB draft says that client should wait for 50 ms before starting optimistic pre-connection when clients receive AAAA before SVCB. Do we want to respect the behavior, or do we want to allow clients to make connection attempts immediately (if clients are not SVCB-reliant) ?

>   it lets run until both the AAAA and SVCB responses are received.

Reviewer: IIUC, the part about running the Resolution Delay Timer (recommended to be 50ms) addresses that, no?

>   Once both records are received, or the timer expires, the client

Author: Updated to clarify that we need to wait for SVCB ServiceMode, which should account for this.

  proceeds with the process of sorting addresses and staggered
  connection attempts.

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we also mention a case where A comes first? It was already decribed in the non-SVCB variant, but it may not be clear what the client should do as line 132 says "The algorithm for acting upon received answers depends on whether the client sent out queries for SVCB RRs."

Author: I think that is handled by saying:
"If the client receives any positive response back (containing a valid
   AAAA, A, or SVCB RR)"

> For both variations of the algorithm, the recommended value for

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For both variations of the algorithm, the RECOMMENDED value for
```

the Resolution Delay is 50 milliseconds.

> If new answers arrive while connection attempts are in progress,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If new positive responses arrive while connection attempts are in progress,
```
For consistency with earlier phrasing

making separate synchronous queries, each on a different thread.

The algorithm for acting upon received answers depends on whether the
client sent out queries for SVCB RRs.

If the client did not request SVCB RRs:

- If a positive AAAA response (a response containing at least one
  valid AAAA RR) is received first, the first IPv6 connection
  attempt is immediately started.
- If a positive A response is received first (which might be due
  to reordering), the client SHOULD wait a short time for the
  AAAA response to ensure that preference is given to IPv6, since
  it is common for the AAAA response to follow the A response by
  a few milliseconds. This delay is referred to as
  the "Resolution Delay". If a negative AAAA response (no error, no
  data) is received within the Resolution Delay period or the AAAA
  response has not been received by the end of the Resolution Delay
  period, the client SHOULD proceed to sorting addresses (see
  {{sorting}}) and staggered connection attempts (see {{connections}}) using
  any IPv4 addresses received so far.

If the client did request SVCB RRs:

- If the client receives any positive response back (containing a valid

>   AAAA, A, or SVCB RR), it starts the Resolution Delay timer, which

Author: ```suggestion
  AAAA, A, or SVCB ServiceMode RR), it starts the Resolution Delay timer, which
```

>   is run until both the AAAA and SVCB responses are received,

Author: ```suggestion
  is run until both the AAAA and SVCB ServiceMode responses are received,
```
